resources.markdown, before:

Resources
=========

Here I'll put some useful information and links. The goal of this file is to have a comprehensive list of Makefiles produced for Arduino -- and get the best of them to implement in a simple, integrated way on this project.



avrdude
-------

- [Documentation](http://savannah.c3sl.ufpr.br/avrdude/avrdude-doc-5.10.pdf)
- [avrdude.conf supplied by Arduino IDE 0022 problem](http://www.arduino.cc/cgi-bin/yabb2/YaBB.pl?num=1294455793)
- [Programming Arduino Uno in pure C](http://balau82.wordpress.com/2011/03/29/programming-arduino-uno-in-pure-c/)



Arduino
-------

- [Build process](http://www.arduino.cc/en/Hacking/BuildProcess)
- [Changes on Arduino Uno](http://www.ladyada.net/library/arduino/unofaq.html)



Tools
-----

- [Vim syntax highlight](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=2654)
- [Arduino with scons!](http://code.google.com/p/arscons/)


Other Makefiles
---------------


### For ATMega328/168

- [Makefile by Martin Oldfield -- probably the best one](http://mjo.tc/atelier/2009/02/arduino-cli.html)
- [dogm128 library -- for Arduino 0022](http://dogm128.googlecode.com/hg/libraries/Dogm/examples/SpaceTrash/Makefile.uno_dogs102)
- Programming Arduino Pragmatically, by Maik Schmidt - [post](http://pragprog.com/magazines/2011-04/advanced-arduino-hacking), [code](https://github.com/maik/pragpub/blob/master/hacking_arduino/part1/Makefile.master)
- [Arduino.mk inside arduino-core Debian package](http://packages.debian.org/sid/arduino-core)
- [Very simple ArduinoMega1280 Makefile](http://borud.no/arduino/skeleton/Makefile)
- [A Rakefile that generates a Makefile](http://rad.rubyforge.org/)
- [A Rakefile!](https://github.com/AndrewVos/arduino-tools/blob/master/rakefile.rb)
- [Arduino Makefile generated by make.rb](https://github.com/takanuva/arduino-makefile) and [its fork](https://github.com/pix/arduino-makefile) (the fork works with Atmega32u4/Teensy)
- [Very simple and commented Arduino Makefile for Slackware](http://home.comcast.net/~bender647/arduino/)
- [Works for Mega -- don't use Arduino library](http://www.technotes.se/?p=632)
- [BSD Makefile for Arduino](http://www.arduino.cc/playground/OpenBSD/CLI)



### Makefiles for old versions of Arduino

- [ArduinoIDE in Python - old Makefiles and some in Python](https://github.com/nick125/arduinoide/)
- [Arduino 0015 Makefile](http://johanneshoff.com/arduino-command-line/Makefile) + [using pyserial to reset Arduino](http://johanneshoff.com/arduino-command-line.html)
- [Arduino 0011 Makefile](https://github.com/lukec/arduino-blink/blob/master/Makefile)
- [Old-Arduinos Makefile](http://arduino-loader-1k.code.fundamentallogic.com/browser/r3/trunk/Makefile)
- [Makefile for Arduino-0015 adapted to 0017](http://dorkbotpdx.org/blog/ax/arduino_0017_makefile)


### For Other MCUs / Related Stuff

- [CDuino](http://brittonkerin.com/cduino/) - nice!
- [Simple Makefile for ATMega8](http://www.micahcarrick.com/avr-tutorial-digital-output.html)
- [Makefile for Mignonette](http://www.mignonette-game.com/downloads-v2.php)
- [Makefile for MeggyJr](http://www.cs.colostate.edu/~cs453/yr2011/MeggyJavaInfo/Makefile)
- [ATTiny2313 from LadyAda](http://www.ladyada.net/make/minipov3/download.html)
- [Programming directly in C for ATTiny2313](http://www.roxlu.com/blog/entry/59/attiny2313,-avrdude-and-arduino-&-avrisp/page/4)


### Makefiles for Windows


- [Arduino Windows command-line](http://www.arduino.cc/playground/Code/WindowsCommandLine)
- [ATTiny2313 for Windows](http://iamsuhasm.110mb.com/AVR%20C%20Dir/Makefile.txt)
- [Arduino Makefile under cygwin](http://www.tinymicros.com/wiki/Makefile_For_Arduino_Under_Cygwin/Windows)


### Not Categorized / To Categorize 

- <http://2geek2curious.com/2009/02/arduino-con-makefile/>
- <http://answerpot.com/showthread.php?1328684-cvs+commit%3A+ports%2Fdevel%2Farduino+Makefile+distinfo+pkg-plist>
- <http://code.google.com/p/arduino/issues/detail?id=553>
- <http://code.google.com/p/mosquino/source/browse/arduino_hw_dropin/Mosquino/cores/arduino/Makefile?spec=svn66e4b97e0caa3f42c555629f043f6f340267f6bb&r=66e4b97e0caa3f42c555629f043f6f340267f6bb>
- <http://code.v.igoro.us/archives/32-2005-Mac-Mini-as-an-Arduino-Development-System.html>
- <http://cpansearch.perl.org/src/MONTUORI/Device-Arduino-LCD-1.02/arduino/Makefile>
- <http://dorkbotpdx.org/blog/ax/arduino_0017_makefile>
- <http://forums.adafruit.com/viewtopic.php?f=25&t=19655>
- <http://freebsd.1045724.n5.nabble.com/ports-155739-maintainer-update-patch-update-devel-arduino-to-0022-td4178130.html>
- <http://iteadstudio.com/copied/installation-and-usage-of-the-arduino-lite/>
- <http://lists.freebsd.org/pipermail/cvs-all/2011-March/334040.html>
- <http://machine501.com/arduino/Makefile>
- <http://note19.com/2009/07/02/arduino-development-with-command-line-tools/>
- <http://offog.org/darcs/misccode/arduino/Makefile>
- <http://pastebin.com/GUxvBEtz>
- <http://pastebin.com/LKYsMqSh>
- <http://pastebin.com/Qk98pkLF>
- <http://pastie.org/pastes/714233>
- <http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.os.contiki.devel/8581>
- <http://projects.cs.kent.ac.uk/projects/kroc/trac/browser/kroc/trunk/tvm/arduino/Makefile.am?rev=6860>
- <http://projects.cs.kent.ac.uk/projects/kroc/trac/changeset/6237/kroc/branches/kroc-1.5/tvm/arduino/Makefile.am>
- <http://protolab.pbworks.com/w/page/19403612/Compile-Wiring-By-Hand>
- <http://rad.rubyforge.org/rdoc/files/lib/rad/generators/makefile/makefile_erb.html>
- <http://robertcarlsen.net/2009/02/28/using-arduino-in-xcode-532>
- <http://sanguino.cc/sanguino-without-ide>
- <https://gist.github.com/1080066/77bae5f725a9805627c74ede60cf9ecb0bd40f3e>
- <https://gist.github.com/273821>
- <https://gitorious.org/gentoo-arduino/arduino/commit/3cd580a2e36e2cd3353642e223baaaff3e2ce483/diffs>
- <http://shallowsky.com/software/arduino/arduino-cmdline.html> <http://shallowsky.com/software/arduino/Makefile-0022> <http://shallowsky.com/blog/2011/Apr/11/>
- <https://linvinus.ru/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=robot:arduino_makefile>
- <http://sources.gentoo.org/cgi-bin/viewvc.cgi/gentoo-x86/dev-embedded/arduino/files/Makefile-0017.patch?view=markup>
- <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6214211/solving-undefined-reference-to-errors-in-a-makefile>
- <http://static.arcanebolt.net/arcanebolt/arduino/Makefile>
- <http://svn.inveneo.org/websvn/wsvn/smartconnect/Libraries/Firmata/examples/SimpleDigitalFirmata/Makefile>
- <https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arduino#Using_a_Makefile_instead_of_the_IDE>
- <http://thegnar.org/sync/?p=36>
- <http://trac.mlalonde.net/Ethduino/>
- <http://trac.mlalonde.net/Ethduino/browser/Makefile>
- <http://weber.fi.eu.org/software/arduino/Makefile.master>
- <http://wiki.leloop.org/images/f/fc/Makefile_for_arduino.txt>
- <http://wiki.madefree.eu/doku.php/arduino_sketch>
- <http://www.elenafrancesco.org/arduino/palgenerator/Makefile>
- <http://www.grayhats.org/howto/40-howto/195-recipe-gnulinux-arduino-vim-e-makefile>
- <http://www.quietless.com/kitchen/setting-up-xcode-to-compile-upload-to-an-arduino-atmega328-duemilanove/>
- <http://www.robgray.com/temp/makefile>
- <http://www.sherkhan.net/blogs/frikadas/?p=517&lang=en>
- <http://www.societyofrobots.com/robotforum/index.php?topic=6605.0;wap2>

Commit message:

Added Mac OS Xcode tested makefile (building and uploading)

resources.markdown, after:

Resources
=========

Here I'll put some useful information and links. The goal of this file is to have a comprehensive list of Makefiles produced for Arduino -- and get the best of them to implement in a simple, integrated way on this project.



avrdude
-------

- [Documentation](http://savannah.c3sl.ufpr.br/avrdude/avrdude-doc-5.10.pdf)
- [avrdude.conf supplied by Arduino IDE 0022 problem](http://www.arduino.cc/cgi-bin/yabb2/YaBB.pl?num=1294455793)
- [Programming Arduino Uno in pure C](http://balau82.wordpress.com/2011/03/29/programming-arduino-uno-in-pure-c/)



Arduino
-------

- [Build process](http://www.arduino.cc/en/Hacking/BuildProcess)
- [Changes on Arduino Uno](http://www.ladyada.net/library/arduino/unofaq.html)



Tools
-----

- [Vim syntax highlight](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=2654)
- [Arduino with scons!](http://code.google.com/p/arscons/)


Other Makefiles
---------------


### For ATMega328/168

- [Makefile by Martin Oldfield -- probably the best one](http://mjo.tc/atelier/2009/02/arduino-cli.html)
- [dogm128 library -- for Arduino 0022](http://dogm128.googlecode.com/hg/libraries/Dogm/examples/SpaceTrash/Makefile.uno_dogs102)
- Programming Arduino Pragmatically, by Maik Schmidt - [post](http://pragprog.com/magazines/2011-04/advanced-arduino-hacking), [code](https://github.com/maik/pragpub/blob/master/hacking_arduino/part1/Makefile.master)
- [Arduino.mk inside arduino-core Debian package](http://packages.debian.org/sid/arduino-core)
- [Very simple ArduinoMega1280 Makefile](http://borud.no/arduino/skeleton/Makefile)
- [A Rakefile that generates a Makefile](http://rad.rubyforge.org/)
- [A Rakefile!](https://github.com/AndrewVos/arduino-tools/blob/master/rakefile.rb)
- [Arduino Makefile generated by make.rb](https://github.com/takanuva/arduino-makefile) and [its fork](https://github.com/pix/arduino-makefile) (the fork works with Atmega32u4/Teensy)
- [Very simple and commented Arduino Makefile for Slackware](http://home.comcast.net/~bender647/arduino/)
- [Works for Mega -- don't use Arduino library](http://www.technotes.se/?p=632)
- [BSD Makefile for Arduino](http://www.arduino.cc/playground/OpenBSD/CLI)



### Makefiles for old versions of Arduino

- [ArduinoIDE in Python - old Makefiles and some in Python](https://github.com/nick125/arduinoide/)
- [Arduino 0015 Makefile](http://johanneshoff.com/arduino-command-line/Makefile) + [using pyserial to reset Arduino](http://johanneshoff.com/arduino-command-line.html)
- [Arduino 0011 Makefile](https://github.com/lukec/arduino-blink/blob/master/Makefile)
- [Old-Arduinos Makefile](http://arduino-loader-1k.code.fundamentallogic.com/browser/r3/trunk/Makefile)
- [Makefile for Arduino-0015 adapted to 0017](http://dorkbotpdx.org/blog/ax/arduino_0017_makefile)


### For Other MCUs / Related Stuff

- [CDuino](http://brittonkerin.com/cduino/) - nice!
- [Simple Makefile for ATMega8](http://www.micahcarrick.com/avr-tutorial-digital-output.html)
- [Makefile for Mignonette](http://www.mignonette-game.com/downloads-v2.php)
- [Makefile for MeggyJr](http://www.cs.colostate.edu/~cs453/yr2011/MeggyJavaInfo/Makefile)
- [ATTiny2313 from LadyAda](http://www.ladyada.net/make/minipov3/download.html)
- [Programming directly in C for ATTiny2313](http://www.roxlu.com/blog/entry/59/attiny2313,-avrdude-and-arduino-&-avrisp/page/4)


### Makefiles for Windows

- [Arduino Windows command-line](http://www.arduino.cc/playground/Code/WindowsCommandLine)
- [ATTiny2313 for Windows](http://iamsuhasm.110mb.com/AVR%20C%20Dir/Makefile.txt)
- [Arduino Makefile under cygwin](http://www.tinymicros.com/wiki/Makefile_For_Arduino_Under_Cygwin/Windows)


### Makefiles for Mac OSX Xcode

- [Building and uploading for Xcode](http://arduino.cc/forum/index.php/topic,49956.0.html)


### Not Categorized / To Categorize 

- <http://2geek2curious.com/2009/02/arduino-con-makefile/>
- <http://answerpot.com/showthread.php?1328684-cvs+commit%3A+ports%2Fdevel%2Farduino+Makefile+distinfo+pkg-plist>
- <http://code.google.com/p/arduino/issues/detail?id=553>
- <http://code.google.com/p/mosquino/source/browse/arduino_hw_dropin/Mosquino/cores/arduino/Makefile?spec=svn66e4b97e0caa3f42c555629f043f6f340267f6bb&r=66e4b97e0caa3f42c555629f043f6f340267f6bb>
- <http://code.v.igoro.us/archives/32-2005-Mac-Mini-as-an-Arduino-Development-System.html>
- <http://cpansearch.perl.org/src/MONTUORI/Device-Arduino-LCD-1.02/arduino/Makefile>
- <http://dorkbotpdx.org/blog/ax/arduino_0017_makefile>
- <http://forums.adafruit.com/viewtopic.php?f=25&t=19655>
- <http://freebsd.1045724.n5.nabble.com/ports-155739-maintainer-update-patch-update-devel-arduino-to-0022-td4178130.html>
- <http://iteadstudio.com/copied/installation-and-usage-of-the-arduino-lite/>
- <http://lists.freebsd.org/pipermail/cvs-all/2011-March/334040.html>
- <http://machine501.com/arduino/Makefile>
- <http://note19.com/2009/07/02/arduino-development-with-command-line-tools/>
- <http://offog.org/darcs/misccode/arduino/Makefile>
- <http://pastebin.com/GUxvBEtz>
- <http://pastebin.com/LKYsMqSh>
- <http://pastebin.com/Qk98pkLF>
- <http://pastie.org/pastes/714233>
- <http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.os.contiki.devel/8581>
- <http://projects.cs.kent.ac.uk/projects/kroc/trac/browser/kroc/trunk/tvm/arduino/Makefile.am?rev=6860>
- <http://projects.cs.kent.ac.uk/projects/kroc/trac/changeset/6237/kroc/branches/kroc-1.5/tvm/arduino/Makefile.am>
- <http://protolab.pbworks.com/w/page/19403612/Compile-Wiring-By-Hand>
- <http://rad.rubyforge.org/rdoc/files/lib/rad/generators/makefile/makefile_erb.html>
- <http://robertcarlsen.net/2009/02/28/using-arduino-in-xcode-532>
- <http://sanguino.cc/sanguino-without-ide>
- <https://gist.github.com/1080066/77bae5f725a9805627c74ede60cf9ecb0bd40f3e>
- <https://gist.github.com/273821>
- <https://gitorious.org/gentoo-arduino/arduino/commit/3cd580a2e36e2cd3353642e223baaaff3e2ce483/diffs>
- <http://shallowsky.com/software/arduino/arduino-cmdline.html> <http://shallowsky.com/software/arduino/Makefile-0022> <http://shallowsky.com/blog/2011/Apr/11/>
- <https://linvinus.ru/dokuwiki/doku.php?id=robot:arduino_makefile>
- <http://sources.gentoo.org/cgi-bin/viewvc.cgi/gentoo-x86/dev-embedded/arduino/files/Makefile-0017.patch?view=markup>
- <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6214211/solving-undefined-reference-to-errors-in-a-makefile>
- <http://static.arcanebolt.net/arcanebolt/arduino/Makefile>
- <http://svn.inveneo.org/websvn/wsvn/smartconnect/Libraries/Firmata/examples/SimpleDigitalFirmata/Makefile>
- <https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arduino#Using_a_Makefile_instead_of_the_IDE>
- <http://thegnar.org/sync/?p=36>
- <http://trac.mlalonde.net/Ethduino/>
- <http://trac.mlalonde.net/Ethduino/browser/Makefile>
- <http://weber.fi.eu.org/software/arduino/Makefile.master>
- <http://wiki.leloop.org/images/f/fc/Makefile_for_arduino.txt>
- <http://wiki.madefree.eu/doku.php/arduino_sketch>
- <http://www.elenafrancesco.org/arduino/palgenerator/Makefile>
- <http://www.grayhats.org/howto/40-howto/195-recipe-gnulinux-arduino-vim-e-makefile>
- <http://www.quietless.com/kitchen/setting-up-xcode-to-compile-upload-to-an-arduino-atmega328-duemilanove/>
- <http://www.robgray.com/temp/makefile>
- <http://www.sherkhan.net/blogs/frikadas/?p=517&lang=en>
- <http://www.societyofrobots.com/robotforum/index.php?topic=6605.0;wap2>
